The year’s notable fiction, poetry and nonfiction, selected by the editors of The New York Times Book Review.
The best in picture books, middle grade and young adult fiction and nonfiction, selected by the children’s book editor of The New York Times Book Review.
The Emmy-winning actor says the most novelistic character he’s ever played is Walter White. “The depth of this tragic story made it feel like the character reached Shakespearean level.”
The yearly avalanche of cookbooks offers something for everyone, from “Fifty Shades of Kale” to “The Eat-a-Bug Cookbook.”
Food is the springboard for much of this season’s best travel writing.
Books that look back to the past stir the imagination.
Five books offer gardeners a chance to study other people’s work and pick up a few pointers.
New books of photography by Sergio Larrain, Josef Koudelka and more.
Portfolios and visual memoirs by decorators attest to lives rich with clients.
Two new books show off the staggering beauty of Antarctica and consider the future of this last clean place on earth.
David Thomson’s latest book is full of assured declarations, chatty asides and free-associative essays accompanying images from 71 films.
Two large-scale coffee-table books, one celebrating the magazine Vanity Fair and the other looking back at the history of the Oscars.
A panoramic celebration of Hollywood fashion in words, still photographs and drawings.
“The Libertine” is a new volume of 18th-century French erotica edited by the literary historian Michel Delon.
Alisa Solomon’s look at the making of “Fiddler on the Roof” and the way the show reflects evolving Jewish cultural identity in America and around the world.
Alexis Turner, the founder of London Taxidermy, shows off some of his stuffed and pickled props.
This collection of Nora Ephron’s writings includes the novel “Heartburn,” scripts for “When Harry Met Sally . . . ” and “Lucky Guy,” and more.
Two new books combine rich storytelling with science to explain dogs — the roles they play in our lives and we in theirs.
“Murals of New York City: The Best of New York’s Public Paintings From Bemelmans to Parrish” features more than 30 large-scale works around the city.
Sam Wasson’s biography of Bob Fosse explains the choreographer’s achievement in prose meant to summon the spirit of a Fosse show.
Ben Bradlee Jr.’s biography of Ted Williams does not materially alter our picture of the Red Sox star, but fills it in with much greater detail and nuance.
Paintings of cats and girls by Balthus, and poetry and prose about cats from The New Yorker.
Graffiti and street art from New York City and around the world.
Henry Bushkin, who worked as a lawyer for Johnny Carson, has written a gossipy, breezy memoir about the late-night host.
John Shaw’s book tells the story of two American anthems: Irving Berlin’s “God Bless America” and Woody Guthrie’s “This Land Is Your Land.”
Nicholas Dawidoff’s case study of the N.F.L., after a year spent with the New York Jets.
Anjelica Huston’s memoir about growing up in Ireland, London and New York doubles as a social history of the 1960s.
Robert Gordon profiles the singers, songwriters and producers behind Stax Records.
A biography of the puppeteer whose influence has hardly waned in the more than two decades since his death.
Jonathan Conlin offers a series of strolls through the history of Paris and London.
An illustrated overview of the main styles and production centers of Greek figurative pottery.
Virginia Postrel lays out the case for glamour as a life-shaping force, whether for good or for ill.
Memoirs about two very different musical journeys.
A new book about Richard Wagner, who relentlessly recorded his daily life, and another about Bach, who left hardly any paper trail.
The first of a projected three-volume biography of the Fab Four.
Sherill Tippins aims to tell the definitive story of New York’s Hotel Chelsea in “Inside the Dream Palace.”
“Emily Dickinson: The Gorgeous Nothings” puts between covers, for the first time, facsimile reproductions of her 52 “envelope poems.”
“The Kid: The Immortal Life of Ted Williams” mostly digs deeply into the tumultuous personal life of perhaps the greatest hitter baseball has ever seen.
The 1891 press that produced “The Works of Geoffrey Chaucer,” among other late-19th-century books, is to be auctioned by Christie’s on Friday.
Little-known and long out of print, the children’s book “Your Police” was discovered by William J. Bratton in a library when he was a boy.
John Eliot Gardiner’s book is not intended as a straight biography so much as a thematic examination of Bach the composer as man and musician.
In two new picture books, animals flit from place to place, enjoying the best views without ever having to wait in line.
In “Eminent Hipsters,” Donald Fagen begins with tales about his early years in Steely Dan, but halfway through, his book becomes a cranky account of being on the road for a recent summer concert tour.
Members of Norman Rockwell’s family are protesting a new biography of him that raises the question of whether he was gay or had pedophilic impulses.
Robert Hilburn’s new biography of the Man in Black, Johnny Cash, dissects his troubles and his broad popularity.
Mr. Schiffrin championed the work of Jean-Paul Sartre, Günter Grass, Studs Terkel, Michel Foucault, Simone de Beauvoir, Noam Chomsky and many others.
Marino Massimo De Caro, the former director of the Girolamini Library in Naples, is accused of stealing thousands of rare books from the historic institution.
The Dutch author Arnon Grunberg, and his readers, are the subject of a study that aims to track the physiology of writing and literary appreciation.
Oscar Hijuelos was sometimes perceived as a poet of appetites. That misapprehension obscured the religious faith and struggle that informed his art.
Ms. Gorbanevskaya was arrested after protesting the Soviet Union’s 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia, and later confined to a psychiatric hospital for her writings.
As the classic gay novel “City of Night” turns 50, its Mexican-American author, John Rechy, reflects on loneliness, growing up in Depression-era El Paso, and how his life and career came together.
For too long, literary criticism has been a realm of relentless negativity. Bravo to BuzzFeed for taking down the gratuitous takedown.
In “Seven Deadlies,” Gigi Levangie offers satirical parables about teenagers obsessed with junk food, boy bands and making money.
Bartlett’s Familiar Black Quotations is not only the most comprehensive book of quotations from black thinkers, but it also possesses a potent and sweeping narrative arc covering 5,000 years.
This month’s books include the reissue of a classic novel by John Rechy, stories by Laura van den Berg and a biography of Richard Pryor.
In “Death of the Black-Haired Girl,” a professor’s world is shaken when his student-lover is killed.
Printed in 1640 by Puritans in Massachusetts, the Bay Psalm Book — one of only 11 known to exist — goes for over $14 million.
James McBride, the surprise winner of the National Book Award for “The Good Lord Bird,” was instantly elevated to a level of literary celebrity that he has yet to enjoy throughout a long career in writing.
Jane Ridley’s “Heir Apparent” is a welcome new biography of Edward VII, who succeeded Queen Victoria on the British throne.
Anjelica Huston offers insight into her life and her recently released memoir, “A Story Lately Told.”
Recent reviews by:
Ideas for everyone on your shopping list.
Tools for finding out more about the early 1960s Greenwich Village folk scene recreated in the Coen brothers film, “Inside Llewyn Davis.”
The Book Review’s list of 100 Notable Books includes several writers who emerged from long hibernations with new work.
Anna Holmes and Pankaj Mishra on travel, solitude and guilty pleasures.
Terry Teachout’s biography of the enigmatic jazz titan Duke Ellington.
Two new biographies of the revered and influential saxophonist and composer Charlie Parker.
Six beautiful large-format books take readers on imaginative journeys.
A photographic history of World War I.
In a wordless, 24-foot-long panorama, Joe Sacco illustrates the first day of the Battle of the Somme.
Six illustrated art books reflect periods of intense conflict and social change.
Charting the development of the superhero from its roots in the pulp novels of the early 1900s to its contemporary ubiquity.
Chris Nashawaty explores the career of the film producer Roger Corman with a mixture of oral history, critical essays and colorful photos.
New books about Sept. 11, urban design, Lincoln Center and mapping the city.
This week, the Book Review editors Sarah Smith, Alida Becker, Barry Gewen, Gregory Cowles and Parul Sehgal discuss the year’s notable books; Julie Bosman has notes from the field; and best-seller news. Pamela Paul is the host.
James Patterson’s “Cross My Heart,” new at No. 1 on the hardcover fiction list, is Patterson’s seventh novel to reach that list in 2013.
Paperback books of particular interest.
Recently reviewed books of particular interest.
Designers discuss their work on recent book covers.
The New York Times Best Illustrated Children’s Books of 2013, with sample artwork from each.
Ms. Lessing was an uninhibited and outspoken novelist who produced dozens of novels, short stories, essays and poems, embarking on dizzying and at times stultifying literary experiments.
Mr. Clancy’s books were successfully transformed into blockbuster Hollywood films, including “Patriot Games,” “The Hunt for Red October” and “Clear and Present Danger.”
A collection of author interviews published on ArtsBeat.
Washington’s most-feared private investigator isn’t afraid of Dumpster diving.
In a new book, William Nordhaus of Yale provides a lucid review of the climate-change problem from both an economic and a meteorological point of view.
A look at three books: a collection of essays arguing for progressive policies in New York City; the history of the pizza box; and a tour through old hangouts and restaurants in the city.
“Beetles and Other Insects,” an expanded edition of Bernard Durin’s 1980 work, gathers 60 color plates of all his known watercolor portraits of insects.
Élisabeth Quin and François Armanet, two of the best-known (and best-dressed) journalists in France, look at the secrets of style.
Dr. Frank Lipman preaches the importance of nutrition to a clientele filled with celebrities.
The Writing Room, in the former home of Elaine’s, will pay homage to the famed saloon and its proprietor, but former devotees are divided on the reanimation of a space that attracted the literati.
